All right.
So now we're about to get into some more of the nitty gritty of Java object orientation in order for
us to proceed with these next few topics, though, I think it's going to be nice if we first create
another project that can serve as a foundation to help us understand why these next few mechanisms that
I'm about to teach you in Java exist.
OK, so what kind of set up a scenario?
All right.
So we're going to make a project where we are going to have a list of people.
We'll just have that list in a multi-line string for now.
And these people will represent employees of a of a company, OK, and they all have different roles
within that company.
And our job as software developers will be to write a program that can pass through that list and based
on each employee's role, determine their salary.
So different roles have a different salary.
OK?
And then we will maybe just add up all of their salaries to determine how much the company needs to
pay each month.
Let's say something like that, OK?
So I think this scenario will give us a decent excuse to evolve the program over the next few modules
with each of the new concepts from Java object orientation that I'm going to introduce.
OK.
So that's what we're going to do.
So with that being said, let's go to the ADC and we're going to create another project to file new
project.
And I guess we can use MAVEN again.
So we'll leave it selected to Marvin or go ahead and select MAVEN.
Honestly, at this point, it barely matters if you use MAVEN or Gradle.
Like I said earlier, I prefer Gradle, but we're already on MAVEN and I want you to have a little bit
of utilization of both.
All right.
Click next, and let's call this project employees.
And then click Finish.
And I'm going to use a new window for for mine.
All right.
So let's see here and after it's done, after the ADC is done setting up the project, which I will
know because there won't be any activity going on in this little right hand corner here.
I'm going to expand this folder here for employees, and I will also open up the source and the main
folder.
So first thing I want to do is let's just create a main program that we're actually going to use to
run everything, OK?
So I'm going to right click on this new Java class, and for right now, I'm just going to call it main
with a capital, M..
OK.
Oh, and let's also put it in a folder, though.
Let's see.
So com neutrino six dot employees dot main.
OK.
All right.
And then return.
So there's our main class now.
Honestly, I debated whether or not to continue teaching every single thing with unit tests.
I really do want to keep you in good practice of doing unit testing, but sometimes I'm afraid that
I'm having to spend more time with you on the unit testing, and you may sometimes miss sight of the
new concept that I'm trying to teach you.
So what?
You're probably going to see me doing in this case, I will introduce you to some of these new concepts
in object orientation with fewer tests initially.
But then when we start to put it all together and make bigger programs, we'll probably jump back into
the TDD approach.
TDD takes real discipline and in practice.
And I think part of that will come by you seeing me do it regularly and by you trying it out regularly
as well.
But I don't want to push too much on you too early.
So we'll come back to the TDD from time to time.
All right.
With that being said, so we're here in the main class, and so we're going to actually do something
very similar to what we did back in the regular expression module.
I think like one of the last lessons there and in fact, I'm actually probably going to go grab that
code as a starting point.
So I'm going to just jump over there real quick.
OK.
So as you can see, I have actually just copied and pasted the original code from that last lesson,
if you have that code, still, you can copy and paste it in, just as I've done here.
Basically, I just grabbed the main method and pasted it right into this class as a starting point.
We're going to modify it a little bit, I think, but it's probably a decent start.
I'll try to also make this main method available as a text file or something on this lesson as well.
All right.
And then I'm going to make a little room here.
So I think what we've got here is a good start already.
But one thing I think we're missing is what is their role, right?
So we want to just put kind of like their role within the company.
And I guess we can just do that at the end of each line.
So we'll just give each person a role.
And I don't know, I'm just going to make these up on the fly.
So maybe Fred Flintstone is a programmer.
And Barney Rubble is a manager, and Wilma is a an analyst and Betty is the CEO.
OK, there we go.
All right.
Now let's revise.
This rejects to be able to pass this last little addition here as a roll, right?
So we've got the date of birth here, which ends with this new line.
So now we'll put another comma in here and let's see a comma, followed by zero or more spaces and then
a Capshaw group, a named Capshaw Group.
And we'll call this roll.
And I'm going to just close that parentheses before I forget to then come back inside of it.
And so the pattern here, I think, is just.
One or more word characters, and then that will be ended with a new line character, which takes us
to the next line.
So I think that's all we need there.
Let's see.
And to test that out, let's just I'm going to replace this date of birth bit here with roll.
And then let's just run this real quick and make sure that that last bit is passing correctly.
OK, looks good.
Fred Flintstone is a programmer, manager, analyst's CEO.
I think we've got it.
OK, good.
All right.
Now let's get down to business.
So our goal here is to pass each of these lines.
And depending on what the person's role is, we will assign a salary to them and then we will add up
all the salaries, OK?
That's basically what we're going to do.
So we've already got this loop here, and I think that's probably a good start and we already have a
means of parsing each person as well.
Now what we need to do, though, is to kind of like assign a salary to each of their roles.
Right?
So with what we know how to do so far, one thought that comes to my mind is that we could use either
and if bloc or a switch, perhaps something like that.
So I'm going to I don't know.
I think I'm going to delete this line.
And if we did a switch on Match Dot Group role.
Then we should be able to say things like case.
Programmer.
Now I'm going to use the arrow notation here, which is the newer syntax for Switch as of Java 14.
And I'll show you why in just a second here.
So let's just say that a programmer earns three thousand.
Now, I'm not even saying what the units are or how frequently this is.
Is this per month per year per day, whatever?
It doesn't matter.
But 3000?
All right.
So we need to do something with this 3000, right?
We need to assign it somewhere.
And so what I'm thinking of here is since the whole point of this is to accumulate a total salary payout
or whatever, right?
Let's see what would happen if we create a variable called, I don't know, total salaries and we'll
set that equal to zero.
And then down here, can we do?
Total salaries.
Plus equals and then we'll put a semicolon here, OK, and then we can just add more cases.
Now let's go ahead and do a default case in case nothing matches that group, right?
In case there's no data there, then for that scenario, let's just return to zero.
All right.
And now that makes all the errors go away because basically saying, well, hey, what if this doesn't
match what you have here?
OK, and that case will just make it zero.
All right.
So program, if you're a programmer, you're getting three grand per whatever, and then we'll do another
case.
If you're a manager, you will get, I don't know, 3500.
And if you're an analyst, you'll get 2500.
And if you're the CEO, you'll get 5000.
All right.
And so let's see here.
So this loop will go.
So hopefully what this should do, then it should loop through each line and pass out the role and then
determine how much that role is worth.
And then add that to the total salaries here.
Right?
And so then when it's done looping, which should be here, let's just print that out.
Let's do a Esso up and say, let's see.
The total payout should be percent as percent in.
And you know what?
Let's be cool and format nicely.
We know how to do that, right?
So let's create an instance of a number format.
No format does it get currency instance, let's capture that.
I'll call it a currency instance and then we can just use it in line here.
So currency instance, dot format, and then we will pass in our number, which will be total salaries.
Like so.
All right.
Let's run that and see what we get.
All right, so it says the total payout should be 14 grand.
OK, so there's our there's our basic approach, right?
All right.
So that's not a terrible approach to doing this, but we can do some things, perhaps to help the program
to be a little more robust, like we could use an enum, perhaps to just kind of help force our possibilities
to align to that which we already know for certain few little things of that sort.
So what we'll do in the next few lessons is we'll use this as a foundation to learn some alternative
approaches to how we might have modeled this.
And then we'll analyze what are some of the pros and cons of these alternative approaches?
OK, so that's all I wanted to do in this lesson is just to introduce you to a problem for us to solve
in a number of different ways.
All right.
With that being said, I'll see you in the next one.